
                      VOL. I. MARCH, 1888. No. 5.
                                  THE
                            TRINITY ARCHIVE.


                 _PUBLISHED BY THE LITERARY SOCIETIES._

       MONTHLY.       TRINITY COLLEGE, N. C.       PRICE, 15 CTS.




                               CONTENTS.


 FIRST HUNDRED YEARS OF THE CONSTITUTION                           83–86

 COMMUNICATION                                                     86–87

 EDITORIAL: A Misapprehension; Ecumenical Council of Colleges;
   Labor and Capital; Prohibition in District of Columbia;
   Endowment Fund; Ignorance of Science of Government; N. C.
   Agricultural Experiment Station; Work at the Experiment Station 88–90

 REVIEWS: Wearing of the Gray; Wit, Wisdom and Beauties of
   Shakespeare; European War Cloud; Amusements of the Christian
   Life; N. C. History                                             91–92

 EXCHANGES                                                         93–94

 LOCALS                                                            95–96

 ALUMNI                                                            97–98

 MISCELLANEOUS                                                        99

                  *       *       *       *       *




                           MANAGERS’ NOTICES.


Correspondents will please send all matter intended for publication to
Prof. J. L. Armstrong, Trinity College, N. C.

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.

One dollar, per scholastic year (nine issues), if paid in advance; if
not paid in advance, one dollar and twenty cents.

To any one who will send us a Club of Five cash yearly subscribers, we
will give a year’s subscription, free.

Remittances should be made by postal note, postal order, or registered
letter, and made payable to “Business Managers of the TRINITY ARCHIVE.”


                         TERMS OF ADVERTISING.

        1 column, per issue, $3.00; per scholastic year, $20.00
        ½     „        „      1.75;          „            12.00
        ⅓     „        „      1.25;          „             9.00
        1   inch,       „      .75;          „             5.00

All business communications should be forwarded to

                                            NICHOLSON & JONES,
                                                    _Business Managers_,
                                                TRINITY COLLEGE, N. C.

                  *       *       *       *       *

 _Entered as second-class matter in Post Office at Trinity College, N.
                                  C._

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             F. FISHBLATE,


                                  THE

                            LEADING CLOTHIER

                           OF NORTH CAROLINA.


                    WE KEEP ALL THE LATEST STYLES IN

                            CLOTHING, HATS,

                                 —AND—

                           Furnishing Goods.

Our line of Fine Dress Suits and Overcoats is the largest and finest
ever seen. In our Hat and Furnishing Goods Department you can find
anything you could ask for. All we ask is a call to convince you that
our stock is the largest, finest and cheapest you have ever seen.

                             Respectfully,

                                                   F. FISHBLATE,
                                                       GREENSBORO, N. C.

  C. M. VANSTORY, MANAGER.

P. S. Suits made to order from samples a specialty. Orders by mail will
receive prompt attention.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             A FREE TICKET

                                   TO

                          Farrior & Crabtree’s

                          Boot and Shoe Store,

                 South Elm St.,      GREENSBORO, N. C.

                            SOLE AGENTS FOR

                     Zeigler Bros., Jas. Means’ $3,

                         And Wm. Dorsch & Son’s

                              FINE GOODS.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                             C. B HAYWORTH,

                       _The People’s Liveryman_,

                           HIGH POINT, N. C.

Good Stock and conveyances. Prices reasonable. Patronage of Trinity
Students solicited.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                          MOFFITT & BRADSHAW,

                      _DRUGGISTS AND PHARMACISTS_,

             Next Door above Bank,      _High Point, N. C._

                               DEALERS IN

                       PURE DRUGS AND MEDICINES,

              Toilet and Fancy Articles, Perfumeries, &c.

We cordially invite students and friends of Trinity College to call and
see us when in need of anything in our line.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                          FRIENDS OF TRINITY,

                             SUBSCRIBE FOR

                         _THE TRINITY ARCHIVE_.

                            $1.00 PER YEAR.

               _Business Friends Send us Advertisements._

                  *       *       *       *       *

                Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes.

[Illustration]

Cigarette smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the price
charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes, will find this brand superior
to all others.

               The Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes

  are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest
  cost gold leaf grown in Virginia. This is the old and original brand
  of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year
  1875. Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below
  is on every package.

                                   ALLEN & GINTER, MANUFACTURERS,
                                                   RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                               GREENSBORO

                            Female College,

                           GREENSBORO, N. C.

The Sixty-Sixth Session of this well-equipped and prosperous School will
begin on the 11th of January, 1888. Faculty (consisting of three
Gentlemen and eleven Ladies) able, accomplished and faithful.
Instruction thorough in all departments. Superior advantages offered in
the departments of

              Music, Art, Elocution and Modern Languages.

Location, healthful and beautiful; fare good. Premises large, with ample
walks for out-door recreation. Buildings large, convenient, comfortable,
and furnished with all the appliances of A FIRST CLASS FEMALE COLLEGE.

Special attention paid to physical health, comfort, and developement,
and moral and spiritual culture.

For catalogue apply to

                                                 T. M. JONES, PRESIDENT.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                           Group Photographs.

I would announce to the students of Trinity College that with a view to
doing school work I have specially fitted myself for making

                             LARGE GROUPS,

such as Classes, Fraternities, Literary Societies, &c. Will be glad to
serve with whatever they need in Photography, in that or any other line
of work. I also make

                   Portrait Frames and Mats to Order.

                                   Respectfully,

                                               =S. L. ALDERMAN=,
                                                       GREENSBORO, N. C.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  THE
                            TRINITY ARCHIVE.

        Published under Supervision of the Professor of English.


                     TRINITY COLLEGE, MARCH, 1888.

The essays which have appeared in the previous numbers of THE ARCHIVE
are specimens of work done in the English Department. The following
essay, which has been placed at our disposal, is taken from the work
done by the Freshman Class in the Department of History:


              The First Hundred Years of the Constitution.

The struggle for independence had ended. The British, with the exception
of a few forts in the Northwest Territory, had retired from the United
States. Peace had been made four years before; yet the state of affairs
in the country was such that even the most sanguine began to rue the day
that the colonies had thrown off their allegiance to the British crown.
Contrary to the expectations of every one, prosperity did not come with
peace. The people had no money, the government had none. The roads were
very bad and consequently very little headway could be made at traveling
and transportation. The farmers were obliged to do a large part of their
work with wooden tools, and of course it was very imperfectly done. Many
who had been in a state of affluence before the war were reduced to a
state of indigence. There were also very few schools. Now it is evident
that this state of affairs was calculated to create discontent among the
people and a spirit of distrust in the government. The soldiers who had
fought so hard and had suffered so much during the war were either
granted lands in the West, which at that time were of little value,
since the Indians kept the settlers in a state of constant terror, or
they were dismissed with the promise that they would be paid as soon as
the country should recover from the financial depression which the war
had caused. Congress had contracted a large debt with France and
Holland, and, as it had no power under the “Articles of Confederation”
to lay taxes, it had no means of paying this debt or of rewarding the
soldiers. England also was injuring the commerce of the States by
seizing their merchant vessels, and Congress had no means of prohibiting
her. The people began to see and to feel that the “Articles of
Confederation” were insufficient for the government of the country. In
reply to the repeated demands of the people, Congress, in 1787, called
an assembly of delegates to revise the “Articles,” and to devise such
provisions as might render the “Constitution of the Federal government
adequate to the exigencies of the Union.”

The convention met in Philadelphia. The States sent their ablest men;
and well they did, for dependent upon their actions and decision was the
destiny of a great nation. After a discussion of some weeks, the
Constitution was decided upon. This Constitution, unlike the “Articles
of Confederation,” gave Congress power to _act_, and not simply to
advise the States. The government provided for by this Constitution was
to be republican in its nature and was to consist of three departments:
a Legislative department, or Congress, to make laws; an Executive
department, the President and his officers, to enforce the laws enacted
by Congress; and a Judiciary department, the Federal Courts, to decide
disputed questions under the law. The Legislative and Executive
departments, working in unison, were to govern the country, always
acting in accordance with the Constitution as interpreted by the
Judiciary department.

This form of government went into effect, being ratified by New
Hampshire, the ninth State, in 1788.

During the first year of the administration of Washington, the first ten
amendments were proposed. We may assign the same reason for the early
proposal of these amendments as that which caused nearly half of the
members of the convention to vote against the Constitution. This cause
was, we think, that the States feared that too much power would be given
to the Federal government. These ten amendments were adopted in 1791,
thus assuring to the people freedom of speech and of press, trial by
jury and a great many other privileges. The third clause in the first
amendment—Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech or
of press—was not very strictly adhered to in later days. For instance,
the “Sedition Law,” passed by Congress during the administration of John
Adams, was disregardful of this clause. The eleventh amendment, limiting
judiciary power, was adopted in 1798. When the presidential election of
1800 came, the Republican candidates were Jefferson and Burr. The votes
being counted, it was found that they had received an equal number. It
now fell to Congress to decide which should be President. On the
thirty-sixth ballot Jefferson received the majority, and Burr, his
political opponent, became Vice-President. In order that this defect in
election might be removed, the twelfth amendment was adopted in 1804. It
provided that the electors should meet in their respective States, and
vote by ballot for President, and in a distinct ballot for
Vice-President.

The people had put aside their old Puritan customs and fashions, and had
come to think and act to a great extent as the people of to-day. They
were energetic and were steadily rising, soon to take their stand in the
foremost rank of the nations of the world. Already foreign nations had
begun to respect their claims, yet the country was doomed to be rent by
civil strife and to flow with the blood of her sturdiest sons. The war
soon passed away, the feeling soon died out, and the North and the South
were known no more as two sections disputing about State Sovereignty,
but as different sections of the same great nation, governed by the same
laws, enjoying the same liberty and freedom, and worshipping the same
Divine Being. The termination of this war in favor of the North gave
rise to the thirteenth amendment, prohibiting slavery in any part of the
United States or in any of her colonies, except as punishment for some
crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted. The fourteenth
amendment was adopted in the year 1868. The fifteenth and last amendment
was adopted in 1870. This gives to each and every citizen of the United
States regardless of race, color, or previous condition of servitude,
the right to vote.

Thus we see that but fifteen amendments have been added to the
Constitution in little over one hundred years; and these became
necessary, not because the convention of 1787 did its work so
imperfectly, but because the growth of the country in population, in
wealth, and the change of the condition and avocations of a majority of
the people demanded them.

Let us notice some of these changes. During the Revolutionary war and
the period between the close of the war and the adoption of the
constitution, there were no railroads and no telegraphs, there were but
very few factories, and those very clumsily built. The public roads were
in a very bad condition, so that the majority of the people knew nothing
of the country except that part of it which was in their immediate
neighborhood, for there were no means of communication between different
sections, and where there is little or no communication between two
sections, they know very little of each other. There were strong States
oppressing the weaker ones and contentions between State and State
concerning their western boundaries. About sixty years later, we find
that the electric telegraph had been invented and was in successful use
and that there were railroads on every hand. There was close
communication between the different sections, so that every one was, or
ought to have been, posted on the issues of the times. There were many
factories of many kinds built on improved plans, thus changing the
employments of a great many citizens. All the States with fixed
boundaries were working in unison with but one purpose in view, and that
the furtherance of the general good. In the former time, farming was the
occupation of the masses; in the later, they were engaged in almost
every industry known to the world. The population had increased from
three millions (3,000,000) to over seventeen millions (17,000,000), and
the wealth of the people had also increased wonderfully. Great political
changes had come about. The issues of the times were entirely different,
and in order that these issues might be rightly legislated upon, changes
were made in the constitution, and these changes constitute the
amendments.

With this constitution as a basis, our country has, for the past
century, been a prosperous and happy country. She has increased in
population and wealth as no other nation on earth has increased. If she
goes on increasing as she has increased, half a century hence she will
have two hundred millions of people, and there will be no power on earth
to compare with her; for she will not be such as China, Hindoostan,
Russia, but a nation of civilized men, helped by steam, electricity and
machinery, so that each man can do as much work as a score of Chinese.
She could then maintain fleets and armies enough to overawe the
remainder of the world. She could make other nations yield to her
slightest demand. She could make herself a bully and a nuisance among
nations. When the United States becomes such a power as this, if rightly
ruled, it may be made a great blessing to the world. If the moral
forces, which have made the country what it is, should be lost, national
decay would soon rid the earth of the evil, and free other nations from
anxiety. North America has been the burial place of other races before
ours, and it may yet be the graveyard of our own. If every man will
fight every evil he sees, if he lives out man’s allotted time of life,
he will be rewarded in seeing his country respected and honored by all
other nations as no nation has yet been respected or honored, and in
feeling that he has done his part in the great work.

                                                                S. D. M.


                           [For the Archive.]

The favorable notices of the Alumni of Trinity are interesting,
especially to an old student. This department as a medium of
communication between old graduates serves in many instances as an
advertising column. All the editors ask of you for this is your
subscription. And the Alumnus or any other old student who takes so
little interest in the affairs of his own college that he does not
subscribe for its publications, I fear has lost his patriotism.

The get-up of THE ARCHIVE is commendable—the carefully prepared articles
deserve the attention of every Alumnus—the book reviews are both
interesting and instructive, and the exclusion of long, dry articles is
admirable.

THE ARCHIVE is not the only thing at Trinity that demands our attention.
The reports and circulars issued by President Crowell demonstrate the
working of a scholar and a live educator. They are truly inspiring, and
every teacher in the State could well afford to read them.

The proposed re-union of the old students and officers of the college,
at the approaching Commencement, will meet with the approval of every
friend of the institution. Of course the Alumni have their annual
re-unions; but all who have ever been connected with the institution
should assemble. Let us have a grand re-union that will inspire every
one with new energy and a determination to work more faithfully than
ever. Let us meet and examine the log-book and see that the old ship is
fully equipped for another voyage.

Thus will her captain be encouraged in his faithful efforts to steer our
educational craft—her crew inspired with fresh hope, and healthy
enthusiasm created among all.

The action of the Alumni will, to a great extent, determine the future
standing of Trinity. Let it not be said of them, “They knew their duty
and did it not.” With united action of the Alumni and the Conference;
endowment, new building, loan fund, and necessary equipments, will place
our college at the head of the list in North Carolina.

                                                                      A.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Liberty is taken to publish the following letter from an old student:

I wish to congratulate the editors of THE ARCHIVE on the splendid paper
you are getting out. It is indeed a fit representation of the College
whose upward move is everywhere attracting attention. As one who loves
his _Alma Mater_, and as one who has watched her struggles in the past
with an eye of interest, I rejoice to know of her present prosperity and
her bright prospects for the future. My purpose, however, in writing is
to subscribe for THE ARCHIVE—find enclosed one dollar—and to tell you to
put down my name as another of a _hundred_ to pay _fifty dollars_
towards the Society and Library Building.

                                                      Very truly,
                                                                W. H. N.

  University of Va.




                              Editorials.


 ═══════════════════════════════════════════════╤═══════════════════════
 G. N. RAPER, _Columbian_,                      │EDITORS.
 M. C. THOMAS, _Hesperian_,                     │

It has been insinuated by those who have a mistaken idea about THE
ARCHIVE that our Professor of English is a member of the Editorial
Staff. A statement of fact will do no injury to any one. THE ARCHIVE is
published by the two Literary Societies and edited by different members
taken from these societies. Furthermore, each staff of editors is
responsible for whatever may appear in their department. Our Professor
of English is only _Censor_, and according to the true acceptation of
this term, his sole duty is to decide whether a composition shall be
admitted to THE ARCHIVE’S columns, just as England at one time had a
censor to examine every manuscript before it could go to press. Please
remember that deciding whether an article shall be published is not
writing that article.

                  *       *       *       *       *

A month or so ago Prof. W. F. Tillett, of Vanderbilt University, through
the columns of the _Christian Advocate_, suggested that a conference of
Southern Methodist educators be held at Nashville in the spring. The
Professor’s suggestion has met with hearty approval from all of the most
prominent Methodist educators throughout the South. This is a step in
the right direction. No church can expect to prosper that neglects
educational work. Such a conference is well calculated to arouse
enthusiasm among the various educators who attend, and give an impetus
to the cause of higher education throughout the bounds of the Southern
Methodist Church. It is to be hoped that plans will be devised the good
effects of which will be felt for years to come. So long as the Southern
Methodist Church fosters her educational institutions, so long does she
foster a powerful element of success. Prof. Tillett’s article has the
right ring, and deserves a careful perusal on the part of Southern
Methodists.

                  *       *       *       *       *

This is an era of invectives against the capitalist, an age in which
Capital and Labor are fighting their greatest battle. The Communists of
France, the Socialists and infidels of Germany, the Agnostics of England
and the Anarchists of America are agitating in the beer saloon and
around the billiard table one of the greatest reformations, as they term
it, the world has yet witnessed. They hate the capitalist, and at the
very same time are making capitalists out of the rumsellers. The great
question of to-day is to solve the problem of Capital _versus_ Labor. It
is a sad fact that the restless mass of laborers instead of benefiting
themselves by their agitation are giving power to the capitalist every
day of their lives by their dissipation. But more than this, the
iniquity of the fathers will descend upon their ignorant children, and
degraded labor will be the result.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Petitions for prohibition in the District of Columbia are being sent to
Congress from all parts of the country. These petitions will probably
receive very little attention from the Congressmen, yet they show that
some of the citizens of the Union are dissatisfied with the customs in
vogue at Washington. Of late years it has gained an unenviable
reputation for the profligacy, intemperance and debauchery, in almost
every form, that is carried on within its limits. The Capital of a
Christian country should most assuredly be otherwise. The city should
undergo a reformation, and a good prohibitory law would be a very good
method by which to bring about this reformation. The intemperance among
members of Congress is startling. The legislators of a country, above
all men, should keep their brains free from the influence of
intoxicants. No man is fit to make laws when his mind is clouded by
liquor. It would be a glorious triumph for the grand principles of
prohibition if a prohibitory law could be passed for the District of
Columbia.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Rev. J. B. Bobbitt has recently issued a circular calling upon
Superintendents to organize a Trinity College Sunday School Endowment
Fund, the object of which is to arouse among the young an interest in
education and to keep the subject continually before the minds of the
people at large. All collections taken on the first Sunday in every
month are to go to the Endowment Fund. A little from every pupil will
make a large amount, and still no parent will feel it very burdensome.
Every citizen who is a friend of education, culture and refinement ought
to give liberally for the endowment of institutions of learning. Do not
hoard up money for your children. Not only are they sometimes injured by
receiving a fortune, but very often ruined by the expectation of it. The
myths tell of a miser of old for whose soul the Tartarian gods could not
find within their domain a sufficient punishment, who thereupon decided
that the most severe penalty would be to send him back to earth and
there let him see how lavishly his children spent his money.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The ignorance of the majority of young men about the national government
is really astonishing. Young men who have had more than ordinary
educational advantages, and have considerable general information, often
exhibit an entire lack of knowledge of the Constitution and in fact of
everything pertaining to the general government. How few young men ever
read the Constitution and study its meaning! Yet these same young men
will soon be invested with all the rights, powers and privileges of
American citizenship, if they have not been already. How can such young
men vote intelligently, when they have scarcely any knowledge of the
nature of the government under which they live? How can the most
sanguine patriot expect a good government to continue to exist when the
average voter is so ignorant of politics? This is the reason why lawyers
hold most of the responsible offices—they are, as a rule, the only men
who study politics. Farmers will assemble in a political convention, and
nominate a lawyer for some high office, and before they leave the hall
in which they have met, will commence a tirade of abuse because the
lawyers hold all the offices, while the honest, hard working farmer is
denied such privileges. The farmers are themselves generally to blame,
as the majority of them are too ignorant of the requisites to get their
rights. A copy of the Constitution should be in every home where there
is any degree of intelligence, and the best political newspapers should
be taken. In fact, every high school and college should have a competent
teacher to instruct the rising generation of young men in the Science of
Government. The voters of the future will then be more intelligent than
they have been in the past.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Dr. H. B. Battle, Director of the Experiment Station, has recently made
a report of his analysis of various brands of fertilizers used by North
Carolina farmers. This report also states that the relative commercial
value of fertilizing ingredients has been considerably reduced. An
ammoniated fertilizer valued at $22.00 last season will be valued at
$20.65 this season. This is good for the farmers. The Experiment Station
is certainly of great benefit to the Agricultural classes.

                  *       *       *       *       *

It is not proposed to interfere with the Endowment Fund by _soliciting_
subscriptions for the New Building; but an effort is being made to raise
money for this purpose by concerts, lectures, etc.




                                Reviews.


 ═══════════════════════════════════════════════╤═══════════════════════
 D. C. ROPER, _Columbian_,                      │EDITORS.
 J. S. BASSETT, _Hesperian_,                    │

  WEARING OF THE GRAY: Comprising personal portraits, scenes and
    adventures of the late war, with thrilling narratives of daring
    deeds, dashing charges, toilsome marches, willing sacrifices and
    patient sufferings of the “Boys in Gray.” Interspersed with stirring
    incidents of life in camp and hospital, and many important events
    hallowed by association with the gallant dead. By John Esten Cooke,
    formerly of General Stuart’s staff, and author of “Surry of Eagle’s
    Nest,” “Life of Stonewall Jackson,” etc., etc. Illustrated. Octavo,
    601 pp., $2.75. New York: E. B. Treat.

The highest praise which we can give this work, perhaps, is to say that
the above, which forms the elaborate title page, falls far short of
giving a full summary of those qualities which go to make the book more
than highly prized by all, both North and South, who reverently hold in
memory the deeds of “Grand Heroes.” The author presents a graphic and
picturesque view of some of the most striking scenes, adventures and
personages of the “late unpleasantness,” with anecdotes and details,
concerning them. His position on Gen. Stuart’s staff gave him the
opportunity of seeing the men and witnessing the scenes of which he
writes. Invention has absolutely nothing to do with the sketches; the
writer having recorded his recollections, and not his fancies. This
volume is a welcome addition to the war literature. Such books ought to
be found in every Southern home, that the memory of ’60–’65 may be
preserved for all time.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  WIT, WISDOM AND BEAUTIES OF SHAKESPEARE.—Edited by Clarence Stuart
    Ward. Boston and New York. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. 188 pp.
    1887.

The editor of this volume recognizing the fact that few at the present
day have the leisure or interest to know Shakespeare thoroughly, has
provided a means for increasing the general knowledge of that author by
arranging, in a manner which admits of easy reference, those passages of
wit and humor which must ever amuse and delight the mind; those of
wisdom and philosophy from which the profoundest significance of action
and habit in life may be deduced; and those of incomparable beauty which
have become the absolute and fixed expression, never to be changed or
displaced in our language, of the ideas they represent. This
compilation, therefore, contains all the passages in Shakespeare, long
or short, which are of special significance, or of inherent excellency,
all those which a speaker or writer might employ to lend grace or vigor
to his theme. While the make-up of this little volume reflects honor
upon its editor, it certainly does honor to the publishers who have
exercised no little care and taste in giving the work its very
commendable appearance.

                  *       *       *       *       *

In number 341 of _The Edinburgh Review_, there is an article on the
Franco-Russian Alliance, by Prince Nicolai Nicolajewitch Galizyn—a
letter to _The Figaro_—upon the doctrines of Kathow, the late celebrated
diplomatist and politician of Russia. The author begins by tracing the
history of diplomatic relations between France and Russia from the time
of Peter The Great to the present. Russia, in prosecuting her scheme of
obtaining the Bosphorus, must have an ally in the West of Europe. France
is situated so as best to fulfil that part, but France will derive
nothing by helping Russia fight her wars; and, besides, the attitude of
Germany toward Russia is most peaceful. From these main facts, the
author thinks that a war of Russia’s precipitation would be far too rash
for her present weak military and financial affairs. British statesmen
who know the inner aspect of things are acting wisely in their policy of
not preparing for war. One cannot read the article in question without
feeling that the present newspaper scare is entirely without foundation.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  AMUSEMENTS AND THE CHRISTIAN LIFE in the Primitive Church and in Our
    Day. By Rev. L. C. Vass. Philadelphia, Presbyterian Board of
    Publication, pp. 91.

This little book, both on account of the spiritual benefit to be derived
from it, and the interesting glimpses of primitive church history
contained in it, is well worth reading. The author, an eloquent divine
of Newbern, N. C., has divided his subject into two parts—Popular
Amusements and Primitive Christians, and Lawful Christian Amusements. He
shows the effect of amusements on the spiritual life of the Christian in
a very clear and easy style made attractive by examples from authentic
history. The type is large and leaded and the volume, taken as a whole,
is creditable to the printer as well as to the author.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Those interested in the history of our State will be glad to know that a
valuable book, giving the history of the counties of North Carolina, by
Hon. Kemp. P. Battle, LL. D., together with an introduction and date of
the erection of those counties, etc., by Prof. W. A. Blair, is now in
press. The work is the result of long labor among our official records,
and the names of its editors are sufficient guarantee of its
reliability. This is more valuable material for the man who is to write
a history of North Carolina which shall endure as a literary monument.
William A. Blair, Winston, N. C., is the publisher.

                  *       *       *       *       *

With a clear idea as to what is best in literature and art, the February
number of _Harper’s Magazine_ issues, in most excellent form, quite a
number of articles which are both interesting and instructive to every
one of literary taste.




                               Exchanges.


 ═══════════════════════════════════════════════╤═══════════════════════
 W. A. BARRETT, _Columbian_,                    │EDITORS.
 A. M. SHARP, _Hesperian_,                      │

The _Davidson Monthly_ takes THE ARCHIVE to task for a failure in the
use of “respectable” grammar, and refers to _Reed and Kellogg_, page
147, where it says information may be obtained, and where is found the
following: “CAUTION.—Unless you wish to _affirm_, do not use two
negative words so that they shall contradict each other;” also
“CAUTION.—Do not use adverbs for adjectives or adjectives for adverbs.”
The first caution refers to use of negatives, therefore the critic
cannot mean this one. Does he mean the second caution? Does he mean that
‘most’ is an adverb where an adjective(?) should be used, or that ‘most’
is an adjective(?), and that an adverb is here needed? Perhaps the
critic meant that it is a case of improper comparison, such as
‘roundest,’ ‘straightest,’ etc., which the old grammars vehemently
denounced, though the best writers use them. It was perhaps a little
irregular to consider ‘too patent’ as an adjectival term of degrees, and
we thank our courteous critic for his suggestion of ‘almost’ for ‘most.’
Still such terms as this are in common use, and we confess a desire to
conform to the many.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The _Charlotte Chronicle_ of Jan. 27th, contains a very earnest appeal
for the endowment of Trinity. The editor says: “We confess we are
impatient about the matter.” Also there occurs, in a February number of
the same, a complimentary notice of the college and its work. The
_Chronicle_ is a broad-gauge paper whose zeal, not only in the interest
of Trinity College, but in all educational interests, is worthy of the
object.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The _Wilmington Messenger_ is one of the newsiest, most successful
dailies of the State. For its success, editor Bonitz, who has striven
against trying difficulties, deserves much commendation.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Henry Ward Beecher’s average grade while at Amherst was but 57 on a
scale of 100.—_Exchange._

                  *       *       *       *       *

The _Vanderbilt Observer_ announces the marriage, in China, of Chas. J.
Soon, Trinity’s Chinese ex-student.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Governor Foraker says: “I would rather be a sophomore in college than
Governor of Ohio.”—_Exchange._

The Governor either must never have attended college, or, while there,
must not have gotten a proper conception of a sophomore; or probably
there was a difference in the sophomore of his day and this.

                  *       *       *       *       *

There is a growing sentiment, meeting the approval both of Faculties and
students, among the colleges, favoring the abolition of the grading
system. In a recent number of the _Student_, a journal devoted to the
educational interests of the Society of Friends, occurs an article which
advocates dispensing with grades, or, if there must be such a system,
protests against its being made a motive force to study. As long as the
working system remains, so long will students work for figures and not
for knowledge. Grades are not measures of scholarship, but only indicate
the result of a week’s “cramming.” Knowledge thus acquired makes the
head very full one week, but leaves it very empty the next. Cornell has
given the non-grading system a trial and the results have proved it
satisfactory in every way.

                  *       *       *       *       *

A prominent politician, not a thousand miles from here, was heard to say
a few days ago: “Jeff Davis ought to have been hung at the close of the
war, and a monument erected over the grave of the truly great John
Brown.” The speaker was a Southern man, a Democrat, and a
Prohibitionist.—_Exchange._

The “speaker” may have _been_ a Southern man, but is not one _now_. The
man who says that Davis ought to have been hung is at heart an alien and
an enemy to the South. The “speaker” has also ceased to be a Democrat,
for Democrats don’t talk that way. If the “speaker” be stripped of his
false apparel, he will be found to shrink into a bundle of prohibition
fanaticism. This fanaticism and prejudice has robbed him—like many
others—of truth and patriotism. The prohibition cause is a good one. Its
advocates cannot forward it by censuring Jeff Davis, but on the other
hand, will greatly damage it.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The matter in the _School Teacher_ is of a kind that cannot fail to be
of peculiar interest to any one who is now engaged in teaching, or
expects at some time in the future to make it his profession. It is
gladly welcomed as an Exchange of THE ARCHIVE. Long may it continue to
advocate the cause of education and impart instruction to the pedagogues
of the State!

                  *       *       *       *       *

The _Goldsboro Argus_ of February 9th contains an announcement of a
change of editors. Mr. Munroe has withdrawn and his place is to be
filled by Mr. J. R. Griffin. THE ARCHIVE has a friendly interest in the
welfare of all its exchanges, and tenders its best wishes for the
success of the new management.

                  *       *       *       *       *

When the _Oak Leaf_ copies an article from THE ARCHIVE it is
respectfully requested to give THE ARCHIVE credit; also to copy the
article without verbal changes such as were made in the case of THE
ARCHIVE’S critique upon the article “States Rights” in the _Wake Forest
Student_.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The receipt of the _Twin City Daily_, the _Thomasville Gazette_, and the
_Summerfield Sheaf_ is acknowledged.




                                Locals.


 ═══════════════════════════════════════════════╤═══════════════════════
 J. C. MONTGOMERY, _C._,                        │REPORTERS.
 T. E. McCRARY, _Hes._,                         │

There is another “Blarney” in town.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Prof. to Mr. McD. “Don’t you know what ‘hug’ means?”

                  *       *       *       *       *

The man with the beaver had better be very careful that he doesn’t sit
down on it.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Chief-Manager, Burkhead and Chief-Marshal Moffitt treated the boys
handsomely.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Rev. Dr. Bobbitt, Financial Secretary of the College, was here on the
18th of last month.

                  *       *       *       *       *

“Joe,” you must not run off and go to any more Spelling-Matches,
especially when it is against your “judgment.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

Mr. C. W. Ogburn, a former student, now agent for the Home Library
Association, was in Trinity a few days last month.

                  *       *       *       *       *

When so much business is transacted in High Point by Trinity citizens,
the leading grocery men should advertise through our columns.

                  *       *       *       *       *

A dignified Senior translated the following sentence from French, “_Quel
est ce bruit? dit-il á l’huissier qui entr’ouvrit la porte_,” thus:
“‘What is that noise?’ said he to the ‘Hoosier’ who opened the door.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

The Sunday School classes have been reduced in size by dividing them.
The new classes have been put in charge of the Seniors.

                  *       *       *       *       *

“Trinity Commercial Bank” having survived its financial troubles, has
reopened with a new outfit in the rear end of the college building.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Now henceforth and forever we intend to do unto others as they do unto
us. If a man advertises in our paper he is our man; and _vice versa_.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Prof. A. Hopkins, of New York, delivered a lecture on Prohibition last
month. He is an able speaker and presents his subject with cogency.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The Young Men’s Christian Association numbers over three-fourths of the
boys in school. The Sunday afternoon meetings are attended very well.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The grades for last term came out last month and some of the boys look
like they have the “blues.” Hope it was not because their grades were
“so low.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

Mr. W. M. McCanless spent a few days in Trinity visiting relatives. He
has just returned from Raleigh, where he received his license to
practice law.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Thanks to the town authorities for the new bridge at the post office.
Those boys who take so much delight in tearing it up and moving it will
wake up some morning in the calaboose.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Boys, if you want to find out the name of a star, ask “Prof. Bandy’s
Mathematical Astronomy Class as it is well versed in the Heavens.” ’Tis
wonderful how the young astronomers learn!

                  *       *       *       *       *

The Juniors and Sophomores had a match foot-ball game on the 13th. After
playing three hours, the game stopped, neither side having made a goal.
The game was played by Rugby rules.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Prof. Dred Peacock spent the 11th and 12th here on a visit to Prof. O.
W. Carr. He says that his school is prospering. We are always glad to
hear of any old boy that is doing well.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Prof. Henry, of the State University, lectured in Trinity on Feb. 8th.
His subject was “Common Sense in Education,” an appropriate subject for
the times. Everybody was well pleased. We hope the Professor will visit
our little town again.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The Laboratory Department is now completed. All apparatus neatly fitted
in various parts of the room, making this room (Prof. Pegram’s) the most
attractive. Four hours a week are required, and as much more allowed as
one wishes to devote to the subject.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Some one has said that Trinity needs a clock that will keep time. Allow
me to say that she has one clock that suits the College and that is what
it’s for; and if other people don’t like the clock, let them have one of
their own.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The Black Diamond Quartette, known throughout North Carolina, sang two
nights in Trinity Hall. Large audiences attended both nights, and all
were pleased beyond a doubt. Half the proceeds for the “New Building,”
amounting to $50.00.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The unknown gentleman who slipped in the last sentence to a local in the
last issue of THE ARCHIVE, “It must have been hard to hide that shoe,”
certainly judges other people’s pedal extremities by his own.

                  *       *       *       *       *

While Kelley, an old darkey well known throughout the limits of Trinity,
and his friend were prattling away the long hours, Kelley unfortunately
became partly wrapped in the arms of Morpheus. In this state he was
relieved by his friend of his pocket book, with contents. The latter
added insult to injury by fastening the door from the outside.

                  *       *       *       *       *

A free-delivery wagon will run from High Point to Trinity once a week.
All groceries sent to Trinity free of charge. Some may not like this,
but where the people in a community are not in a hearty co-operation and
do not help sustain the business that helps to support the town, nothing
else can be expected.




                                Alumni.


 ═══════════════════════════════════════════════╤═══════════════════════
 W. H. RHODES, _Columbian_,                     │EDITORS.
 G. T. ADAMS, _Hesperian_,                      │

The Alumni Department, having for its object news about old students,
their occupations, &c., cannot fail to be one of the most interesting
and commendable features of THE ARCHIVE. To the Alumni it is especially
interesting, and in order that this department may accomplish that for
which it was intended, it must necessarily be supplied with proper
material. This material can be obtained only through the Alumni and
former students themselves, who are earnestly requested to forward any
information concerning themselves, as to their occupation, location,
&c., and any change of either. The editors urge and greatly hope that
the postals sent you, asking for this desired information, will be
promptly answered, thereby contributing largely to the pleasure of
acquaintances and to the success of the department.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—W. C. Gannon, ’56, a prominent minister of the North Carolina
Conference, is now stationed at Monroe, N. C.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—B. J. Bell is merchandising in Beaufort, N. C., and is also Sunday
School Superintendent.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—G. B. Everett, ’73, is now a Land Officer at Mitchell, Dakota. He has
been married twice and is the father of four children.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—B. F. Howland has been a seafaring man for a number of years. He is now
Captain of a vessel plying between some port in Virginia and
Philadelphia.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—H. B. Adams, ’70, a very prominent lawyer at Monroe, N. C., was elected
to the Senate in 1884 and to the House of Representatives in 1886.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—J. D. Ezzell, ’85, is principal of Bellevoir High School, Sampson
county, where he has been teaching for two and a half years. We learn
that his school is in quite a prosperous condition.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—H. C. Foscue, who was here in ’58, is now farming near Pollocksville,
N. C. He is one of the leading citizens in the county, and has been
magistrate a number of times, which office he now holds.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—E. M. Foscue is one of the largest and most successful farmers in Jones
county. He lives near Trenton, N. C., and has been elected to several
important offices in the county.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—Samuel Leffers has charge of the public school at Beaufort, N. C.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—S. S. Mann is teaching school at Lake Landing, Hyde county, N. C.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—J. W. Townsend, ’66, is keeping books for J. M. Fairly, a large cotton
buyer and merchant at Monroe.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—John W. Gannon, ’83, is Bookkeeper for H. H. Reynolds, a large tobacco
manufacturer at Winston, N. C.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—J. H. Robbins, who recently married Miss Minnie Edwards, is farming
near Trinity. The editor took occasion some time since to visit Jim’s
farm, and can say of a truth that he is one of the neatest, best and
most successful farmers in the community.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—E. A. Armfield is a merchant at Monroe, and also a Revenue officer.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—A. C. Weatherly, class of ’83, is principal of Morning Sun Academy near
Fishdam, N. C. Mr. Weatherly established this school only a short time
ago, but owing to his earnest, zealous efforts, his fitness and peculiar
adaptation to the profession and his popularity in the vicinity, his
school has increased rapidly and promises to be an important factor in
the accomplishment of much good.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—J. A. Monroe, ’72, one of our prominent teachers, is now principal of
Monroe High School, Monroe, N. C.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—D. H. Everett is superintending his father’s farm, near Clio, S. C.
Judging from the interest he always manifested in the discussion of any
topic that pertained to the farm, the conclusion is natural that he will
be pleased with his occupation and that success will crown his efforts.
The boys miss Dan’s ever genial countenance and dry humor, and hope that
he will ere long return.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—C. B. Ingram, class of ’78, on graduating from college with
distinction, and experiencing a few “ups and downs,” began the study of
medicine in ’81. After completing his medical course, he located in
Lilesville, N. C., but has recently made a change and is permanently
located in Mt. Gilead, N. C. He expresses the hope, that in a few years
he can patronize his Alma Mater by sending his boys here. Dr. Ingram,
like a great many of the Alumni, has a warm attachment to Trinity and is
doing all he can to promote her interests. He wishes to meet all the
class of ’78 at the next annual commencement.

                  *       *       *       *       *

—H. L. Coble, class of ’84, is “swaying the scepter of a pedagogue over
a goodly number of young men and maidens” at Shiloh Academy, Moffitt’s
Mills, N. C. He states that he has purchased a printing press and built
an office near the Academy for the purpose of running a monthly paper in
connection with his school. THE ARCHIVE will look forward with much
pleasure to the reception of the first issue and will be pleased to
number it among its exchanges. THE ARCHIVE further extends its
congratulations to you, Henry, upon your recently becoming a happy
pater-familias—although it is a daughter. Long may you live and the “wee
ones” that bless and adorn your life!

                  *       *       *       *       *

—J. W. McCanless, after completing the junior class course, studied law
under Judge Cilley at Lenoir, N. C. Having obtained license, he will
practice a while with his preceptor, and intends then “hanging out his
shingle” in Calvert, Texas.




                             Miscellaneous.


                           LEAP YEAR SPRING.

               _From Beaumont & Fletcher’s Valentinian._

                   Now the lusty Spring is seen;
                   Golden yellow, gaudy blue,
                   Daintily invite the view.
                   Everywhere on every green,
                   Roses blushing as they blow,
                   And enticing men to pull,
                   Lillies whiter than the snow,
                   Woodbines of sweet honey full;
                   All love’s emblems, and all cry,
                   “Ladies, if not pluck’d, we die.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

Gen. Hardie always claimed that his troops were the last to lower the
Southern flag to Northern numbers. It is recorded that he was the last
General to receive notice of surrender and orders of disbandment. At
that time his headquarters were in Trinity College, at the house of Dr.
Craven, at whose front gate the official flag was planted. Here on a
lovely morning in May, 1865, his daughter, Miss Annie Hardie,
accompanied by the staff and many weeping and tattered soldiers, while
the college bell, near by, tolled the requiem of the Southern
Confederacy, and while officers and men stood uncovered, tenderly
dismantled and forever furled this last lone emblem of Southern chivalry
and Southern bravery. If this flag has been preserved, it should be in
the museum at Trinity.—_High Point Enterprise._

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           DIKE BOOK COMPANY,

                 Opp. National Bank, GREENSBORO, N. C.

                       Fine Books and Stationery

                             OF ALL KINDS.


                             SETS OF BOOKS
            By Standard Authors for sale by sets or singly.

Books of great value, including History, Biography, Poetry, Travels,
&c., for young men and students, at low prices.

                       _FULL LINE OF THE POETS._

Latest Publications of Lovell’s Library, Munro’s Library and others.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                               IMPORTANT

To reduce our stock of clothing, we offer same for 30 days at =PRIME
COST=

50 Suits $4.50, $5.50, $6.50; 50 Suits $8.50, $10.50, $12.50; 25 suits,
Corkscrew Worsted, $6.50, $8.50, $12.50, up.

150 pairs Men’s Pants, 75c to $5.

50 prs. children’s pants, 35c.

                                                    R. J. LINDSAY & BRO.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                         _GRIMES & STRICKLAND_,

                     Pharmacists and Apothecaries,

                           THOMASVILLE, N.C.

                        Keep constantly on hand

                  PURE and FRESH DRUGS and MEDICINES.

Best brands of Cigars and Tobaccos always on hand. Prescriptions
carefully filled at all hours.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                            BELLEVUE HOTEL.

                        J. N. CAMPBELL, MANAGER.

          Headquarters for Sportsmen and Commercial Travelers.

                           HIGH POINT, N. C.

                  *       *       *       *       *




                            TRINITY COLLEGE,

                    TRINITY COLLEGE, N. C., U. S. A.


  FACULTY.—Separate chairs in History and Political Economy, Latin and
      French, English and German, Greek and Metaphysics, the Natural
      Sciences, Mathematics and Engineering, Business and Pedagogy.

  DEPARTMENTS.—_Collegiate_, leading to Degrees of A. B. and Ph. B.

      _Preparatory_, preparing for admission to college.

      _Business_, five months’ training for business life.

      _Post-Graduate_, advanced studies beyond graduation.

      _Pedagogics_, lectures and special work for teachers.

      _Theological_, preparatory training for the Christian Ministry.

  EXPENSES.—_Tuition_, $3 to $5 per month.

      _Board_, $8 to $12 per month.

      Tuition should be paid in advance, and books at the time of
      purchase.

  SPECIAL LECTURES are given weekly to all who may wish to attend, free
      of extra charge, on topics of interest. The lecture program of
      prominent speakers for the weeks will be announced later.

EXAMINATIONS.—Examinations in course are held twice a year or at the
completion of any particular subject. Examinations for admission to
college in 1888 to any of the regular classes will be held in June on
the day following Commencement, and in September on the day before the
opening of college. Students are admitted to the Preparatory and
Business Departments without examination, but to no other.

The requisites for admission to the Freshman class in 1888 are
Arithmetic, including the Metric System; Algebra to Quadratics; U.S.
History; English Grammar and Analysis; Geography, Descriptive and
Physical; Natural Sciences, Physiology and Hygiene; Latin, three Books
of Cæsar and Latin Grammar, including Prosody.

An extra year’s work in Latin and Greek will be required for admission
in 1889 to the classical course only (A. B. degree.)

LOCATION.—In Randolph county. Reached _via_ High Point, N. C., over the
Piedmont Air Line. Healthfulness and quiet location render it peculiarly
safe and well adapted to the education of youth and young men.

INFORMATION.—Special circulars issued quarterly, and the regular annual
catalogue will be sent or any desired information given respecting the
Institution, upon application to

                                    JOHN F. CROWELL, A. B. (Yale),
                                                            _President_.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                             WM. PARTRIDGE,

                           HIGH POINT, N. C.

                          Makes a specialty of

                  LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S FINE SHOES,
                    HAND SEWED SHOES,
                      FRENCH CALF SHOES,
                        HAND WELT SHOES,
                          GOODYEAR WELT SHOES,
                            McKAY SEWED SHOES,
                  GENTLEMEN’S GENUINE KANGAROO SHOES.

                      J. FAUST & SON’S FINE SHOES.

Dunlap & Youman’s block of STIFF HATS, also a fine line of CRUSH HATS.

                                             _WM. PARTRIDGE_,
                                               Boot, Shoe and Hat Store.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                            BROWN & MATTON,

                               DRUGGISTS

              NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE, HIGH POINT, N. C.

  Invite the students and friends of Trinity College to examine their
                            complete line of

             =Toilet Articles=, =Perfumery=, =Stationery=,

      and all articles usually found in a first-class drug store.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                        THE BEST.      THE BEST.

Holmes’ New Readers, Maury’s Geographies, and Holmes’ New History are
recommended by the State Board of Education for exclusive use in the
schools of North Carolina. Best books at lowest prices. Every school
should have them.

                                   UNIVERSITY PUB. Co.,
                 19 Murray St.,               NEW YORK.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                             THOMAS BROS.,

                   Successors to Thomas, Reece & Co.,

                                 POWER

                         Book AND Job Printers,

                           GREENSBORO, N. C.

                      _Printers of “The Archive.”_

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings retained as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.

